---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 - Calculus (Limit)"
math: true
description: Derivatives tricks..
date: 2025-03-13
categories: [calculus, math]
tags: [calculus]
image:
 path: /assets/img/LIMIT.png
---
## Introduction
For today, we're going to learn about random methods to solve derivatives. I got no introduction, let's just move on man.

## Random Fact!
When solving a derivative question, if we want to find a specific x on the derivative and the answer is larger than 0 (x > 0), that means the graph is going up on that x. If it's smaller than 0 (x < 0), it's the opposite. This will be useful in finding the peak or the minimum is for the derivative.

## Binomial Theorem
What's a Binomial Theorem? It's a way to ease huge exponent operations, such as (x+y)^4 or larger. It's defined by this formula :

$$
(a + b)^n = \sum_{k=0}^{n} \binom{n}{k} a^{n-k} b^k
$$

The gist of it is basically that we have to find each variable's coefficients and exponents starting from whatever exponent n we have. We can find the coefficients using the factorial (n k), which is defined as this : 

$$
\binom{n}{k} = \frac{n!}{k!(n-k)!}
$$

If we had to find one that has an exponent of 4, it will find the constant for each variable using this formula. The k starts from 0 and keeps going up until it reaches that exponent (4). After that, we have this :

$$
a^{n-k} b^k
$$

We use the n and k from before to determine the variable's exponent. Pretty straightforward.

## Chain Rule

The chain rule is used for derivatives with large exponents, such as (3x-7)^12. The formula is defined as:

$$
\frac{d}{dx} [f(g(x))] = f'(g(x)) \cdot g'(x)
$$

Let's use the example question :

$$
y = (3x - 7)^{12}
$$

First we use the power rule that is used for other derivatives where the exponent goes to the left side and the original exponent gets decremented by 1 :

$$
\frac{d}{dx} (3x - 7)^{12} = 12(3x - 7)^{11}
$$

Next, we find the derivative of the operation inside the brackets : 

$$
\frac{d}{dx} (3x - 7) = 3
$$

Now just multiply everything like this :

$$
\frac{d}{dx} (3x - 7)^{12} = 12(3x - 7)^{11} \cdot 3
$$

$$
= 36(3x - 7)^{11}
$$

This method works for any function with the form (x + y)^n!